>> Brian Holt: All we've talked about so
far are hooks, right?
How to do state with hooks?
It used to be called stateless
functional components and
now people just call
them function components.
But if you see that terminology,
those mean the same thing, right?
It just means that a function
that's not a class.
I'm going to show you how to do the other
way of doing components which are class
components.
And they function in one
most ways very similarly and
in other ways, a bit differently.
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna make
the details page be a class component.
>> Brian Holt: So what I'm gonna do here
is I'm gonna say class Details extends
React.Component,
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: So,
this is a JavaScript class.
There's nothing special about this yet,
right?
It extends React.Component which means
that it has some inheritance that it's
gonna get from a react component.
>> Brian Holt: But other than that,
it works relatively the same way.
The one hard requirement of every class
component is it must have a render method.
>> Brian Holt: It will not work
unless you have a render method.
>> Brian Holt: And then this render
method works mostly like how a function
component works, right?
>> Brian Holt: So
one thing to keep in mind as well is that,
>> Brian Holt: You can't use hooks
with classes, right?
So use state will just simply not
function inside of a class component.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
>> Brian Holt: So,
we're gonna put in a render
method here in just a second.
>> Brian Holt: But let's go ahead and
put in a componentDidMount.
>> Brian Holt: So, component, you can see
here that it's actually gonna try and
complete it for me cuz it knows
it's coming from React.Component,
that's how it knows all of these methods.
>> Brian Holt: These
are called lifecycle methods.
>> Brian Holt: And, right today,
we're gonna talk about componentDidMount.
And componentDidMount is a very, very
similar to use effect in the sense that it
runs when it first start up,
but then it stops.
It doesn't run anymore after that, okay?
Whereas use effect, you have to give it
the dependencies and things like that.
ComponentDidMount just as like I'm gonna
do this once when I first get created and
then I'm done doing this thing, okay?
So that's what we're gonna
do with componentDidMount.
>> Brian Holt: ComponentDidMount is useful
for things like doing Ajax request,
which is exactly what we're gonna do,
right, when someone loads the page.
We wanna go to the API and get the pet
information back from the API, right?.
>> Brian Holt: So, that's exactly
what we're gonna do when we say pet,
which we are going to import that from
import pet from frontendmasters/pet.
>> Brian Holt: I wanna say pet.animal,
it's a single animal.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're going to pass it.
We want to pass that the ID
that we're getting from here,
I like it from /details/1, right?
We wanna pass it this number
1 right there, right,
that ID that we're getting from the URL.
So the way we're gonna do
that is with this.props.id.
So rather than getting that in as
an argument like we were with functions it
comes up this.props.
You can be assured that anything that's
passing from the parents is gonna come
in from this.props.
The one thing to keep in mind
with this.props is its immutable,
you can't change it.
So, a child receives props from its
parents, and it can't change them,
it can only read them, right?
They're read-only in that sense.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense, yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then after that, this is a promise.
I'm gonna say .then and we're gonna
get the animal back from the API.
>> Brian Holt: It's a pair function here.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna say this.setState.
>> Brian Holt: And we're going to get
the name is going to be animal.name.
>> Brian Holt: You could
put like a return here,
it'll just stop giving
you all the red lines.
We'll fix that in a second and
I'm just getting sick of the red lines.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Name,
>> Brian Holt: Animal.name will do,
animal is,
>> Brian Holt: Animal.type.
>> Brian Holt: Here will do location which
will be a template string because we have
to put a couple things together here.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna do
animal.contact.address.city.
>> Brian Holt: Space,
animal.contact.address.state.
>> Brian Holt: Description
will be animal.description.
>> Brian Holt: And
the media will be animal.photos.
breed will be animal.breeds.primary.
>> Brian Holt: And then the other thing
that we're gonna do here is we're gonna
say, loading false.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna say, loading false.
So, when we first load the page,
we're gonna put it in a loading state,
right cuz you're grabbing
something from the API, right?
And then whenever this
comes back from the API,
we're going to set that to loading false.
Now the way that we're gonna set it to
be a loading state is we're gonna say
constructor up here.
>> Brian Holt: Let's say, constructor,
and constructor will take in the props.
And you have to say super props.
This is just something kinda, it's
an odd ritual that you just have to do.
It's going to be constructed
with properties, and
you have to handle those
properties up to react, right?
So that's what this does.
The super props says,
hey call the constructor on my parent
class which is a React.Component.
Is that make sense?
If you don't do this,
react will yell at you.
So, just get used to doing it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, here,
I'm gonna set an initial stage,
some would say this.state =,
>> Brian Holt: Loading,
oops,
>> Brian Holt: True.
>> Brian Holt: So let's talk about
this.state versus to this.props.
This.props is information that you get
from your parent class that's handed
down to you, right?
This is, again,
what was coming in via parameters before.
Now again, we don't have hooks.
So we don't have any way to keep
stateful things using hooks, right?
So the way that we do that with class
components as using this.state.
Whereas this.props immutable and
only comes from the parent.
This.state is self-contained
within the class.
So no other components can modify its
state, its master of its own state, right?
>> Brian Holt: So in this particular case,
I'm instantiating it like I'm
creating the first set of state but
everything after that I'll do
with this.setState, right?
So after I call this .setState here, this
will update this state up here, right?
So this will get a bunch of new
state from all this stuff, right?
And then this loading true,
will be set to loading false.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
Okay, so the thing to know about
when I call this .setState,
this is what's called a shallow merge,
right?
So, I mean,
it might even literally just says Object,
you can ignore this but
just showing what it does.
Object assign,
>> Brian Holt: oldState,
>> Brian Holt: newState, right?
>> Brian Holt: So that basically what
that means is if any of these collide,
like this one does with this one,
it will over write this one, right?
But everything else will just be additive.
So if this had some other thing,
>> Brian Holt: This
would not be overwritten,
this would still exist afterwards, right?
But it is shallow, right?
So if I have deeply nested objects,
those won't get overwritten, right, so
it just does the top level.
>> Brian Holt: And that's how you
do state with class components.
This is how I've been doing state for
a really long time until hooks came along.
>> Brian Holt: Something
else I wanna call out here,
notice these an arrow function here
instead of saying function here.
>> Brian Holt: You’ve probably noticed
that I use a lot of arrow functions just
by the nature of how I code, this in
this place, it's actually required.
>> Brian Holt: I don't wanna say required,
it's very difficult if
you don't do it this way.
>> Brian Holt: So why?
Why is this a problem here?
Well, if I put a function here,
what is this?
>> Brian Holt: The answer is not
what you would want it to be.
[LAUGH] I don't actually
know it's gonna be, but
it's not gonna be what
you'd want it to be, right?
When I put function here, it creates
a new context when this is invoked.
This.then is going to be
invoked somewhere else.
That might be Window,
it might be the promise itself.
I'm not actually sure
what it gets invoked on.
But, if I do an arrow function
instead this will get.
It will not create a new context,
which is what arrow functions do,
they don't create new contexts, right?
So this will be correct.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Some of classic components,
what this is very important, right?
It's actually one of the reasons why they
chose to go the directions of hooks is
because this is kind of hard to teach,
right?
>> Brian Holt: It can be.
>> Brian Holt: There's just like a handful
of things that you need to be aware of.
And I think after that it's
pretty to move past what this is.
>> Brian Holt: And, you can also put here
in the then, you can put console.error.
So if there's any errors in the API, so
it will just log it out to the console.
>> Brian Holt: You should have better
error handling than this, right?
You should report it to your service and
show that your error are some
useful error message.
This is not a course on error handling.
They have a course on that,
you should watch that.
[LAUGH]